CHAOS-5310 Discovered service and network maps (#6596)
harness/developer-hub: docs/chaos-engineering/features/service-discovery/intro-service-discovery.md

---

> title: Introduction

Reviewer: might consider updating this title

sidebar_position: 1
description: An introduction to service discovery and its significance
---

This section introduces you to **service discovery** for **Kubernetes infrastructure**, its significance, and its purpose.

### What is a discovered service?

> Discovered service is an entity on the Harness platform (also known as the control plane) that corresponds to a Kubernetes service on your (user) cluster. It includes details about the connections made from and to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Discovered service is an entity on the Harness Platform (also known as the control plane) that corresponds to a Kubernetes service on your (user) cluster. It includes details about the connections made from and to it.
```

### Why is a discovered service required?

Large enterprises deal with hundreds of deployed services. Monitoring these services or incorporating chaos engineering on these services would require building a database of these services and the relationship between these services, which is time-consuming. Service discovery comes into the picture: Instead of creating a database with the services, **automatically discover services** and the relationship between them.

### How does HCE discover services?

HCE performs the following steps to discover services in your cluster:
1. Scan your Kubernetes cluster periodically (you can define the interval or ad-hoc).
2. Build a database of services that describes the relationship between the services.
3. Provide APIs to group the discovered services into a map, wherein the map represents a topological view of an application.

### How does HCE leverage discovered services?

HCE tests the resilience of the application, and HCE uses the discovered services to:

- Identify the various available services in the chaos module, that is, the chaos targets in the Kubernetes cluster that you can deploy using Harness or other means.

> - Record the resources backing the above services (logical resources such as deployment, pods, containers, processes, FQDNs, ports, physical resources such as nodes, storage, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Record the resources backing the above services (logical resources such as deployment, pods, containers, processes, FQDNs, ports, physical resources such as nodes, storage, and so on).
```
